---
layout: post
title: Focus.
date: '2014-11-09 20:54:01'
description: We are, it would seem, really bad at being focussed. And, if we want to get anything done, we need to get better at focussing.
meta-description: We are, it would seem, really bad at being focussed. And, if we want to get anything done, we need to get better at focussing.
---

We only have so long on this amazing green and blue planet of ours. If you live in the western world, the numbers put your expected time on this planet anywhere between 70 and 100 years. If you're like me, 25 years old, you're already up to a third of the way through your time here. (Yikes, that's a depressing thought!)

Considering the limited time we have, it's amazing how we continue to fill our lives with more and more things. We're learning more than any generation before us. We're in contact with more people on an average day than there were people to be in contact with at one point. We worry about the tiniest things, and are obsessed with keeping up to date with problems half way across the globe.

We are, it would seem, really bad at being focussed.

And, if we want to get anything done, we need to get better at focussing.

We need to stop worrying about the problems we can do nothing about. And focus on those we can have an impact on.

We need to stop caring about the opinion of people who flash in and out of our lives, and focus on communicating with those who are near and dear to us.

We need to stop trying to learn everything, and focus on learning the things that make us better at what we do, and can increase our impact.

We need to stop trying to be all things to all people, and focus on being the best us we can be.

We need to focus. 

I'm as guilty as anyone for not focussing. I can often be found procrastinating, trying to do anything but focus on what really matters. I'm challenging myself to focus more. I think we could all benefit from doing such a thing.

-S

---

<center>This post was written whilst listening to...
<iframe src="https://embed.spotify.com/?uri=spotify:user:spotify_uk_:playlist:6fNxMXoPCwFASWFejZKC7J" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true"></iframe></center>