---
layout: post
title: 500 Words
date: '2014-07-13 13:14:05'
---

It is said that the best way to become good at something is to do it again and again. To try each and every day to improve on the day before. These little improvements add up, and before you know it you're much better than you ever thought you would be.

I'm a writer. I think I always have been. If you'd ask  me to describe myself in three words, those are most likely the three I would choose. If you were to ask me to describe myself in as many words as I wanted, we would be here a very long time.

Recently, I stopped writing so much. I still post the occasional blog post here. I write an insane number of Tweets. But I rarely write anything more than a couple of hundred words, and only when I've been riled up enough by something. I want to change this.

"500 Words" is to be the change here. Each and every day I plan to write 500 words and publish them to my blog. Some days these posts will be about technology. Some days they'll be about business. Others they'll be about learning new things, great people or something completely random. The one thing linking them will be that they're written by me (and that they are over 500 words long).

You may see the posts pop up in other places. I may put them on Medium if they're relevant to that audience, and I may try and push some of them to other places if I feel they add value. Let's see how it goes.

## Join me


I know that some of you are wanting to learn to code. That others are itching to get their hands on a lathe and try woodwork. Nearly every one of us has a new skill or interest we'd like to pick up, but just need the kick in the proverbial to get started.

Join me! Let's encourage each other to get on with doing what we keep putting off. Chat with each other about the ups and downs of learning something new. Show each other what we've made, and the progress we've made. If you're interested in doing this, [pop me an email](mailto:hi@samhutchings.co).

## Where from here?


This is my first 500 word post. My second will come tomorrow. If you'd like to subscribe to this blog, you can do so with the [RSS feed](http://blog.samhutchings.co/rss/).

I've no idea what subjects I'm going to cover over the coming days and weeks. We'll see what springs forth from my fingers, mind and notepad. All I know is that each day I write a new post, the better I get at writing. And that's no bad thing!

P.S. If you decide to read along, remember this: You won't always agree with me. You're not supposed to. If you do find yourself disagreeing with me, I ask just one thing. Write 500 words explaining why. Post them somewhere online, and [tweet me](http://twitter.com/Smutchings) the link. I'll happily give it a read.
