---
layout: post
title: H2 2017 Rate Card
date: 2017-06-19 12:00:00
description: As we move into the latter half of 2017, it's time to review my rates and how I work.
meta-description: As we move into the latter half of 2017, it's time to review my rates and how I work.
---
As June comes to a close, we put aside the first half of 2017 and work through the summer towards an ever-closer new year. At this time, I think it's appropriate for me to review my rates, publish a new rate card, and share with you my financial goals for this second half of the year.

# A Rate Review and New Rate Card

Before today, I operated on a £60 per hour rate for all of my work. This translated into a £360 day charge, as I charge and aim to work for 6 hours a day. This then compounded up to a £1,800 per week charge. In short, this rate card hasn't worked for me. The starting point was too low, and there was no incentive for longer projects, as customers were just paying at my standard rate.

Starting today, the 19th of June, 2017, my rate card looks as follows:

- Per 2-hour block: £140
- Per 6-hour day: £360 (Save £60)
- Per 5-day week: £1,600 (Save £200)
- Per 4-week month: £6,000 (Save £2,400)

*Notes: Any travel of expenses required by a specific project shall be charged back to you, the client. Savings shown are calculated by comparing to same time purchased in 2-hour blocks.*

This now means that the minimum number of hours I can be hired for is 2. And that you save money as the number of hours goes up. If you'd like to pre-book my services for a whole month, you now can at a greatly reduced rate. If you have longer-term or more complex projects in mind, [mailto:hi@samhutchings.co](get in touch for a discussion and a free quotation!)

# My Financial Goals for June - December 2017

I want to be open with you, my prospective clients. A great client-freelancer relationship is built on trust and openness. We gain nothing by keeping secrets from each other. With that in mind, here are my financial goals for the second half of 2017, in priority order.

- Cover my life expenses and prepare for the next stage in my life (£750 per month)
- Pay off outstanding debts (£4,000)
- Create a "Rainy Day" fund for future business costs and life costs (£5,000)
- Update my work hardware (£2,000)

In total, this means that I need to earn, after tax and National Insurance, £15,500 between now and the end of December. That means I need to earn about £20,000 before tax and National Insurance obligations. So, I need to be at 50% utility to hit my goal.

# What's Next?

Next, for me, is finding great people to work with to help them communicate their business's goals and values.

Next, for you, if you appreciate my style and transparency, is to [mailto:hi@samhutchings.co](pop me an email) or [https://www.twitter.com/Smutchings](DM me on Twitter), so we can see how we can work together on communicating better.
